1. Every browser internally has a javascript engine,
which executes the js code.
2. All the scripting language code gets convrted into js(ECMA).
3. ECMA(European Computer Manufacturer's Association) script is the 
set of the standard to be followed by all the scripting alnguages.
4. Typescript is developed by Microsoft.
5. Typescript follows the features of both ES5 and ES6.
6. TypeScript uses transpiler.

7. Transpilation is the process of converting the typescript code to ECMA(JS)
8. We save typescript file with .ts as extension.
9. Transpilation process is as below:

.ts file--> transpiler---> .jsfile ----> browser ---> executed

10. Typescript is the super set of javascript.

11. When we compile the .ts file equivalent .js file is generated.
12. We include this .js file in our html file
13. We cannot include .ts file in the html because, browser
does not understand typescript code.
14. Javascript doesnot support data type at the time of variable
declaration.
15. Type script support data types. eg?
16. Type script is type safe language: ? -> protects our data from other datatype
17. Angular is client side framework which is based on typescript.
18. Framework provides the structure to develop the project.
19. In javascript errors can be seen at the runtime.
20. In typescript errors can be seen at the compile time.
21. Javascript is interpreter based language.
22. Type script is compiler based language.
23. Javascript does not support abstract class/interfaces.
24. Typescript supports abstract class and interfaces.
25. Typescript is a typed language(type safe).
26. We can check the data type of the variable using 
typeof() function in typescript.
27. compile using: tsc <file.ts>

Number data type:
let age: number = 20;       
let binary:number = 0b1011100;   0b indicates the binary number
let hexcode: number = 0x46ADC56;  0x indicate the hexadecimal number
let octal: number = 0o77563; 0o indicate the octal number


any:
1. Some times the data is coming from remote location(server), and we want
to recieve it. In this case we don't know the datatype.
For such a situation typescript provides "any" data type.
2. When we declare a variable with datat type as "any" it can hold data of any type.


Array:
1. Used to store multiple elements of same datatype

Enum:
It is used to assign the numeric constant
2. It is used when we want to select the value
from perticular set of value


NOTE: Object: Realtime entities, based on object a class in created.
Class:


Object:
Everything in this world which has properties and which perform some task.

1. It has state and behaviour.
2. Set of values of peoperties of an object is called as state.
	eg. Student(rollNo,name,percent) --> set of properties
		(101,Sachine, 69.36)----->state 
		(102,Ajit,93.63)------>state
3. This set of functions carried out by object is called as behaviour.


Class:
1. It is blueprint for object.
2. Class is used to map the realtime object with the software domain.
3. Using the class we can create the any number os identical objects.

Constructor:
1. It is a special member function of class, which get called automatically at the time 
of object creation.
2. It is used to initialize the properties of an object.
3. It does not have a return type.

Inheritance:
1. When one object of a class acquires the properties and behaviour of another object of another class, it is called inheritance.
2. The advantage of inheritance is code reusability.
3. We use inheritance for code reusability and extensibility.
4. A class which aquires the properties is called child class or derived class.
5. A class from which other classes acquires properties and behaviour is called as base class or parent class.
6. In typescript we use "extends" keyword to establish the parent child relatinship.

Super:
1. super() is used to ivote parent class Constructor
2. using super we can call the parent class members(data,function)

Overriding: 
1. Redeclaring the parent class function in child class is called as function(method) Overriding.
2. In overriding the signature of parent class function and child class function must be same.

Module:
1. When we want to create resuable code(class), 
we have to make it as Module. : to use one class, inside an external class. We use Module.
2. To create any class as module we have to export it.
3. If we export a class, then only we can use it in other files.
